---
title: "Conference: Evaluation in L3Pilot: Toolchain and First Results"
collection: conference
permalink: /publication/2020-ack
excerpt: 'Conference paper on first results of the L3Pilot project'
date: 2020-10-05
venue: '29. Aachen Colloquium Sustainable Mobility: October 5th-7th, 2020'
paperurl: 
citation: 'Hiller, J., Weber, H., Eckstein, L., Zlocki, A., (2020) &quot;Evaluation in L3Pilot: Toolchain and First Results&quot; <i>29. Aachen Colloquium Sustainable Mobility: October 5th-7th, 2020</i>'
---
Towards the goal of introducing automated vehicles as a contributor to safe and sustainable mobility on European Roads, several challenges still need to be addressed.
One of them is further developing the functions to deal with the various challenges on the broad spectrum of European roads.
However, even if those functions can be deployed, a lot of evaluation work still needs to be done.
This concerns not only the technical functionality of those functions, but also the user acceptance.
With the European project L3Pilot, these two topics are further advanced.
Additionally, the societal and environmental impact as well as the impact on the safety of traffic is evaluated.
In order to address these challenges, a toolchain was developed that is based on the experience from various previous projects.
Building upon a common data format, the toolchain extracts measures, indicators and scenarios from single trips and aggregates and stores them in a consolidated database for further evaluation.
Extracting data from this database, further evaluations into the impact of automated driving can be done.
Within the L3Pilot project, the first results using this toolchain are now available.

This paper presents the toolchain behind the generation of results in L3Pilot from the pilot site recording to the generation of the various evaluation and impact assessment results.
Some first results can be presented, however due to Covid-19 and the thereby interrupted piloting phase, further and more detailed results will be delayed.

[RWTH publications server](https://publications.rwth-aachen.de/record/816219)

Recommended citation:
```bibtex
@InProceedings{Hiller2020,
  author    = {Hiller, Johannes and Weber, Hendrik and Eckstein, Lutz and Zlocki, Adrian},
  booktitle = {29. Aachen Colloquium Sustainable Mobility},
  title     = {Conference: Evaluation in L3Pilot: Toolchain and First Results},
  year      = {2020},
  month     = {oct},
  publisher = {29. Aachen Colloquium Sustainable Mobility},
}
```
